Revamp ThirdWeb Docs (#942)
moonbeam-foundation/moonbeam-docs: builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb.md

    - `_royaltyRecipient` - wallet address to receive royalties from secondary sales
    - `_royaltyBps` - basis points (bps) that will be given to the royalty recipient for each secondary sale, e.g. 500 = 5%

3. Select the desired Moonbeam network, e.g., Moonbeam, Moonriver, or Moonbase Alpha
4. Manage additional settings on your contract’s dashboard as needed such as uploading NFTs, configuring permissions, and more

> ![thirdweb deploy](/images/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/thirdweb-2.webp)

Reviewer: can you please indent this so it looks like it is under step 4?

2. Input your preferences for the command line prompts:

    1. Give your project a name
    2. Choose your preferred framework: **Next.js**, **Vite**, or **React Native**. For this example, select **Vite**

3. Use the React or TypeScript SDK to interact with your application’s functions. This will be covered in the following section on interacting with a contract

## Interact With a Contract {: #interact-with-a-contract }

> thirdweb provides several SDKs to allow you to interact with your contract including: [React](https://portal.thirdweb.com/react/v4){target=\_blank}, [React Native](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react-native){target=\_blank}, [TypeScript](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v4){target=\_blank}, and [Unity](https://portal.thirdweb.com/unity){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: Why not use react v5 docs?: https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react
and TypeScript v5: https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5

Author: Updated for all except useOwnedNFTs, useContractRead and useContractWrite, which don't have corresponding v5 docs pages.

Reviewer: There has to be a v5 alternative, right? I'd prefer to not link back to v4 and just move forward with v5

> This document will show you how to interact with your contract deployed to Moonbeam using React. You can view the [full React SDK reference](https://portal.thirdweb.com/react/v4){target=\_blank} in thirdweb’s documentation.

Reviewer: I don't know why we are creating two different projects. We tell users to create the application in the previous section and then we do it again here

### Run Locally {: #run-locally }

To run your dApp locally for testing and debugging purposes, use the command: 

```bash
yarn dev
```

The app will compile and specify the localhost and port number for you to visit in your browser.

![thirdweb run locally](/images/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/thirdweb-4.webp)

### Create Client ID {: #create-client-id }

If you generated your thirdweb app with Vite, you'll have a `client.ts` file that looks like the below. As long you've created a `.env` file with your thirdweb API Key (Client ID) defined in `VITE_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID`, you can leave the `client.ts` as is and proceed to the next section.

```typescript title="client.ts"
import { createThirdwebClient } from 'thirdweb';

// Replace this with your client ID string
// refer to https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/client on how to get a client ID
const clientId = import.meta.env.VITE_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID;

export const client = createThirdwebClient({
  clientId: clientId,
});
```

You can delete the placeholder code in `App.tsx` because we'll be replacing it as part of the tutorial. 

### Configure Chain {: #configure-chain }

> thirdweb offers a small number of chains from `@thirdweb/chains` and does not include Moonbeam networks in that list, so you'll need to specify the network details including chain ID and RPC URL. You can create a custom chain with [`defineChain`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/references/typescript/v5/defineChain){target=\_blank} as follows:

Reviewer: I'd just add the title to the code snippet for consistency with the rest of the documentation

` ```typescript title="App.tsx"`

=== "Moonbeam"

    ```typescript
    import { defineChain } from 'thirdweb';
    const moonbase = defineChain({
    id: {{ networks.moonbeam.chain_id }},
    rpc: '{{ networks.moonbeam.public_rpc_url }}',
    })
    ```

=== "Moonriver"

    ```typescript
    import { defineChain } from 'thirdweb';
    const moonbase = defineChain({
    id: {{ networks.moonriver.chain_id }},
    rpc: '{{ networks.moonriver.public_rpc_url }}',
    })
    ```

=== "Moonbase Alpha"

    ```typescript
    import { defineChain } from 'thirdweb';
    const moonbase = defineChain({
    id: {{ networks.moonbase.chain_id }},
    rpc: '{{ networks.moonbase.rpc_url }}',

>     })

Reviewer: Needs to be formatted

    ```

### Get Contract {: #get-contract }

> To connect to your contract, use the SDK’s [`getContract`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/references/typescript/v5/getContract){target=\_blank} method.  As an example, you can use Thirdweb to fetch data from an [Incrementer contract on Moonbase Alpha](https://moonbase.moonscan.io/address/0xa72f549a1a12b9b49f30a7f3aeb1f4e96389c5d8){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer 2: I found the snippet that comes after this confusing. You mentioned deleting placeholder code, so I removed all of the jsx and stuck a "Hello world" div in there as a placeholder. My pain points from there:

- The snippet uses useState without showing useState in the imports, which causes an error. 
- It is unclear to me whether or not I was supposed to delete of all the starter code in App.tsx (rather than just the jsx) before adding your snippet. If I am supposed to replace everything with your code snippet, you are missing a closing bracket for the App(), which causes an error. 
- Getting a type error for `abi: ABI" in the const myContract toward the bottom of the snippet

```typescript title="App.tsx"

>     --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:4:4'
>     --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:6:6'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:4:4'
--8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:6:6'
```

Reviewer: These are indented when you view the site locally, so I think removing the spaces should resolve this

Reviewer: Can you please fix all other indented snippets?

    --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:17:57'
```

### Calling Contract Functions {: #calling-contract-functions }

To call a contract in the latest version of the SDK, you can use [`prepareContractCall`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/transactions/prepare){target=\_blank}.

```typescript title="App.tsx"
    --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:6:6'

>     --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:144:148'

Reviewer: This doesn't look right. I just looked into it and it looks like we can remove the indents, can you try adding the config to mkdocs.yml https://facelessuser.github.io/pymdown-extensions/extensions/snippets/#options

I guess we would need to set `dedent_subsections` to true

```

> We can trigger this contract call from a thirdweb [`TransactionButton` component](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react/components/TransactionButton){target=\_blank}, which has some neat features built in. For example, if you're on the incorrect network, the button will prompt you to switch networks. In the below snippet you'll also add some error handling as a good practice. 

Reviewer 2: When I add the next snippet to my local project, there are type errors for: transaction, contract, method, params

```typescript title="App.tsx"
    --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:2:2'
    --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:6:6'

    --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:134:164'
```

### Reading Contract State {: #read-contract-state }

Use the [`readContract` function](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/transactions/read){target=\_blank} to call any read functions on your contract by passing in the Solidity method signature and any parameters.

```typescript title="App.tsx"
import { readContract } from 'thirdweb';

const number = await readContract({
      contract: contract,
      method: 'number',
      params: [],

>     });

Reviewer: please format this

```

### Connect Wallet {: #connect-wallet }

> Next, you can customize the [Connect Button](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react/components/ConnectButton){target=\_blank} to tailor it our desired wallets. The Connect Button accepts an optional  `wallets` parameter with an array of wallets. You can add or remove wallets from the wallets array to change the options available to users. ThirdWeb also offers a [ConnectButton Playground](https://thirdweb.com/dashboard/connect/playground) to customize and view changes in real-time given the high degree of flexibility offered by the button. The below snippet will also include logic to display the counter value and the increment button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you can customize the [`ConnectButton`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react/components/ConnectButton){target=\_blank} to tailor it to your desired wallets. The `ConnectButton` accepts an optional  `wallets` parameter with an array of wallets. You can add or remove wallets from the `wallets` array to change the options available to users. thirdweb also offers a [Playground](https://thirdweb.com/dashboard/connect/playground) to customize and view changes for the `ConnectButton` in real-time, given the button's high degree of flexibility. The snippet below will also include logic to display the counter value and the increment button.
```

> ```typescript title="App.tsx"

Reviewer 2: This will likely sound silly to someone as experienced as yourself, but I will share it anyway. 

As a greener developer, your import statements in these code snippets freak me out. They keep changing from step to step. Some things get imported at the top in one step, and then they aren't there anymore in the next step. That is enough to make a junior developer wonder if they are putting everything in the right place. Sharing the completed code at the end is helpful but I almost missed that it was there at the end. Adding a mention and a link near the top of the Create Application section would be a big help for less experienced devs to draw attention to the complete sample.

    --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:2:2'
    --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:7:7'

    --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:9:15'

>     --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx:87:105'

Reviewer 2: Whichever one of these snippets is the one where the wallet options get added: there is a Header component in the JSX that we never create or import, so it's throwing an error

```

## Deploy Application {: #deploy-application }

> Putting it all together, you can view the full code for the App.tsx file below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Putting it all together, you can view the full code for the `App.tsx` file below:
```

Press **Create API Key** then take the following steps:

1. Give your API key a name
2. Enter the allowed domains that the API key should accept requests from. It's recommended that you allow only necessary domains, but for development purposes, you can select **Allow all domains**
3. Press **Next** and confirm the prompt on the next page

Finally, specify your Client ID (API Key) in your `.env` file. If using Vite, thirdweb references it in the `client.ts` and assumes the API key will be in your `.env` file named `VITE_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID`. If you don't set this value correctly, you'll get a blank screen when trying to build the web app.

!!! note
    The respective name for your Client ID variable will vary with the framework you've chosen, e.g., Vite will be `VITE_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID`, Next.js will be `NEXT_PUBLIC_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID`, and React Native will be `EXPO_PUBLIC_THIRDWEB_CLIENT_ID`.

> ![thirdweb create API key](/images/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/thirdweb-3.webp)

Reviewer: can you please move this up so it's directly below the steps?

This document will show you how to interact with your contract deployed to Moonbeam using React. You can view the [full React SDK reference](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react){target=\_blank} in thirdweb’s documentation.

### Run Locally {: #run-locally }

To run your dApp locally for testing and debugging purposes, use the command: 

```bash
yarn dev
```

The app will compile and specify the localhost and port number for you to visit in your browser.

![thirdweb run locally](/images/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/thirdweb-4.webp)

### Create Client ID {: #create-client-id }

If you generated your thirdweb app with Vite, you'll have a `client.ts` file that looks like the below. As long you've created a `.env` file with your thirdweb API Key (Client ID) defined in `VITE_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID`, you can leave the `client.ts` as is and proceed to the next section.

```typescript title="client.ts"

> import { createThirdwebClient } from "thirdweb";

Reviewer: can you please run prettier on all of the snippets? Noticed these are using double quotes

// Replace this with your client ID string
// refer to https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/client on how to get a client ID
const clientId = import.meta.env.VITE_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID;

export const client = createThirdwebClient({
  clientId: clientId,
});

```

> ### Configure Chain {: #configure-chain }
> thirdweb offers a small number of chains from `@thirdweb/chains` and does not include Moonbeam networks in that list, so you'll need to specify the network details including chain ID and RPC URL. You can create a custom chain with [`defineChain`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/references/typescript/v5/defineChain){target=\_blank} as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure Chain {: #configure-chain }

thirdweb offers a small number of chains from `@thirdweb/chains` and does not include Moonbeam networks in that list, so you'll need to specify the network details including chain ID and RPC URL. You can create a custom chain with [`defineChain`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/references/typescript/v5/defineChain){target=\_blank} as follows:
```

> ```typescript title="App.tsx"

Reviewer: can you please add tabs for Moonbeam & Moonriver?

import { defineChain } from "thirdweb";

  const moonbase = defineChain({

>   id: BigInt(1287),

Reviewer: I copied this into my project and I'm getting "Type 'bigint' is not assignable to type 'number'.ts(2322)" - can you please double-check it?

>   rpc: "https://moonbase-rpc.dwellir.com",

Reviewer: wss://wss.api.moonbase.moonbeam.network

})
```

### Get Contract {: #get-contract }

> To connect to your contract, use the SDK’s [`getContract`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/references/typescript/v5/getContract){target=\_blank} method.  As an example, let's fetch data from an [Incrementer contract on Moonbase Alpha](https://moonbase.moonscan.io/address/0xa72f549a1a12b9b49f30a7f3aeb1f4e96389c5d8){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: avoid let's

```typescript title="App.tsx"
import { getContract } from "thirdweb";
import { client } from "./client";

const myContract = getContract({
  client,             
  chain: moonbase,       
  address: INSERT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS,   

>   abi: INSERT_ABI               

Reviewer: if we're going with a specific example, might as well add the address and ABI here

});
```

### Calling Contract Functions {: #calling-contract-functions }

To call a contract in the latest version of the SDK, you can use [`prepareContractCall`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/transactions/prepare){target=\_blank}.

```typescript title="App.tsx"
import { prepareContractCall } from "thirdweb";

const tx = prepareContractCall({

>           contract,

Reviewer: this is `myContract` in the previous section, so just need to either change this instance or that one

          method: "increment",
          params: [],
        });
```

> We can trigger this contract call from a ThirdWeb [Transaction button](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react/components/TransactionButton){target=\_blank}, which has some neat features built in. For example, if you're on the incorrect network, the button will prompt you to switch networks. In the below snippet we'll also add some error handling as a good practice. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can trigger this contract call from a thirdweb [`TransactionButton` component](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react/components/TransactionButton){target=\_blank}, which has some neat features built in. For example, if you're on the incorrect network, the button will prompt you to switch networks. In the below snippet you'll also add some error handling as a good practice. 
```

```typescript title="App.tsx"
import { TransactionButton } from "thirdweb/react";
import { prepareContractCall } from "thirdweb";

> function IncrementButton({ contract }) {

Reviewer: Getting "Binding element 'contract' implicitly has an 'any' type.ts(7031)" error - can you please double-check?

  return (
    <TransactionButton

>       transaction={() => {

Reviewer: Getting "Type '() => PreparedTransaction<readonly [{ readonly inputs: readonly []; readonly name: "increment"; readonly outputs: readonly []; readonly stateMutability: "nonpayable"; readonly type: "function"; }, { readonly inputs: readonly []; readonly name: "number"; readonly outputs: readonly [...]; readonly stateMutability: "vi...' is not assignable to type '() => PreparedTransaction<any> | Promise<PreparedTransaction<any>>'.
  Type 'PreparedTransaction<readonly [{ readonly inputs: readonly []; readonly name: "increment"; readonly outputs: readonly []; readonly stateMutability: "nonpayable"; readonly type: "function"; }, { readonly inputs: readonly []; readonly name: "number"; readonly outputs: readonly [...]; readonly stateMutability: "view"; r...' is not assignable to type 'PreparedTransaction<any> | Promise<PreparedTransaction<any>>'.
    Type 'undefined' is not assignable to type 'PreparedTransaction<any> | Promise<PreparedTransaction<any>>'.ts(2322)"

Author: Not where this is coming from, I'm not able to replicate this error.

        console.log("Preparing to call increment...");
        // Verify that 'contract' is not undefined
        if (!contract) {
          console.error("Contract is undefined.");
          return;
        }
        const tx = prepareContractCall({
          contract,
          method: "increment",
          params: [],
        });
        return tx;
      }}
      onTransactionSent={(result) => {
        console.log("Transaction submitted", result.transactionHash);
      }}
      onTransactionConfirmed={(receipt) => {
        console.log("Transaction confirmed", receipt.transactionHash);
      }}
      onError={(error) => {
        console.error("Transaction error", error);
      }}
    >
      Increment Counter
    </TransactionButton>
  );
}
```

### Reading Contract State {: #read-contract-state }

> - Use the [`readContract` function](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/transactions/read){target=\_blank} to call any read functions on your contract by passing in the Solidity method signature and the params.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [`readContract` function](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/transactions/read){target=\_blank} to call any read functions on your contract by passing in the Solidity method signature and any parameters.
```

```typescript title="App.tsx"
import { readContract } from "thirdweb";

const number = await readContract({
      contract: contract,
      method: "number",
      params: [],
    });
```

### Connect Wallet {: #connect-wallet }

> Next, let's customize the [Connect Button](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react/components/ConnectButton){target=\_blank} to tailor it our desired wallets. You can add or remove wallets from the wallets array to change the options available to users. ThirdWeb also offers a [ConnectButton Playground](https://thirdweb.com/dashboard/connect/playground) to customize and view changes in real-time given the high degree of flexibility offered by the button. 

Reviewer: let's

Reviewer: If I am reading this without context and without looking at the code snippet below, I don't know what the wallets array is. So I'd just introduce it a bit by just saying something like, "The `ConnectButton` accepts a `wallets` parameter, which allows you to pass in an array containing the supported wallets."

```typescript title="App.tsx"
import { ConnectButton } from "thirdweb/react";
import { createWallet, inAppWallet } from "thirdweb/wallets";
 
const wallets = [
  inAppWallet(),
  createWallet("io.metamask"),
  createWallet("com.coinbase.wallet"),
  createWallet("me.rainbow"),
];
 
function Example() {
  return (
    <div>
      <ConnectButton client={client} wallets={wallets} />
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Deploy Application {: #deploy-application }

Putting it all together, you can view the full code for the App.tsx file below:

??? code "View the complete App.tsx script"
    ```typescript
    --8<-- 'code/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/App.tsx'
    ```

> And that's it! As a reminder, you can run your app locally with the following command:

Reviewer: "And that's it" is confusing because this section is about deploying the application, but so far we've just reviewed the entire script

> And that's it! As a reminder, you can run your app locally with the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can view the completed example project by running:
```

const transaction = prepareTransaction({
  to: '0x1234567890123456789012345678901234567890',
  chain: moonbase,
  client: thirdwebClient,
  value: toWei('1.0'),
  gasPrice: 150n,
});
```

After the transaction is prepared, you can send it as follows:

```typescript title="Send a transaction"
import { sendTransaction } from 'thirdweb';

const { transactionHash } = await sendTransaction({
  account,
  transaction,
});
```

You can optionally use `sendAndConfirmTransaction` to wait for the transaction to be mined. This is relevant if you want to block the user from continuing until the transaction is confirmed. 

```typescript title="Send and Confirm a Transaction"
import { sendAndConfirmTransaction } from 'thirdweb';
import { createWallet } from 'thirdweb/wallets';

const wallet = createWallet('io.metamask');
const account = await wallet.connect({ client });

const receipt = await sendAndConfirmTransaction({
  transaction,
  account,
});
```

### Transaction Utilities {: #transaction-utilites }

thirdweb provides a number of helpful utility methods surrounding preparing and sending transactions. 

You can estimate the gas used by a transaction as follows: 

> ```typescript title="Estimating Gas"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript title="Estimating gas"
```

import { estimateGas } from 'thirdweb';

const gasEstimate = await estimateGas({ transaction });
console.log('estmated gas used', gasEstimate);
```

You can estimate the gas cost in Ether and Wei as follows: 

> ```typescript title="Estimating Gas Cost"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```typescript title="Estimating gas cost"
```

Press **Create API Key** then take the following steps:

1. Give your API key a name
2. Enter the allowed domains that the API key should accept requests from. It's recommended that you allow only necessary domains, but for development purposes, you can select **Allow all domains**
3. Press **Next** and confirm the prompt on the next page

!!! note
    The respective name for your Client ID variable will vary with the framework you've chosen, e.g., Vite will be `VITE_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID`, Next.js will be `NEXT_PUBLIC_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID`, and React Native will be `EXPO_PUBLIC_THIRDWEB_CLIENT_ID`.

Finally, specify your Client ID (API Key) in your `.env` file. Your `.env` file must be located at the root directory of the project (e.g. not the `src` folder). If using Vite, thirdweb references it in the `client.ts` and assumes the API key will be in your `.env` file named `VITE_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID`. If you don't set this value correctly, you'll get a blank screen when trying to build the web app.

![thirdweb create API key](/images/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/thirdweb-3.webp)

> ## Configure and Run thirdweb dapp {: #configure-and-run-thirdweb-dapp }

Author: Sure

const clientId = import.meta.env.VITE_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID;

export const client = createThirdwebClient({
  clientId: clientId,
});
```

### Configure Chain {: #configure-chain }

thirdweb offers a small number of chains from `@thirdweb/chains` and does not include Moonbeam networks in that list, so you'll need to specify the network details including chain ID and RPC URL. You can create a custom chain with [`defineChain`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/references/typescript/v5/defineChain){target=\_blank} as follows:

=== "Moonbeam"

    ```typescript
    import { defineChain } from 'thirdweb';
    const moonbase = defineChain({
    id: {{ networks.moonbeam.chain_id }},
    rpc: '{{ networks.moonbeam.public_rpc_url }}',
    })
    ```

=== "Moonriver"

    ```typescript
    import { defineChain } from 'thirdweb';
    const moonbase = defineChain({
    id: {{ networks.moonriver.chain_id }},
    rpc: '{{ networks.moonriver.public_rpc_url }}',
    })
    ```

=== "Moonbase Alpha"

    ```typescript
    import { defineChain } from 'thirdweb';
    const moonbase = defineChain({
    id: {{ networks.moonbase.chain_id }},
    rpc: '{{ networks.moonbase.rpc_url }}',
    })

>     ```

Reviewer: The code here needs to be formatted. I still think the title of the file these snippets get added to should be defined

> ## thirdweb sdk

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## thirdweb SDK {: #thirdweb-sdk }
```

> The following sections will provide an overview of fundamental methods of the thirdweb sdk and how to interact with them. Each code snippet will showcase the relevant import statements and demonstrate using the method in a typical scenario. This guide is intended to be a quick reference guide to the most common thirdweb methods that dApp developers will use. However, it does not include information on each and every thirdweb offering. For details on the entirety of thirdweb's offerings, be sure to visit the [thirdweb documentation site](https://portal.thirdweb.com/){target=\_blank}. For a comprehensive, step-by-step guide to building a dApp with thirdweb be sure to check out Moonbeam's [thirdweb tutorial in the tutorials section](/tutorials/eth-api/thirdweb). The following sections will cover everything from connecting wallets, to preparing transactions, and more.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections will provide an overview of fundamental methods of the thirdweb SDK and how to interact with them. Each code snippet will showcase the relevant import statements and demonstrate using the method in a typical scenario. This guide is intended to be a quick reference guide to the most common thirdweb methods that dApp developers will use. However, it does not include information on each and every thirdweb offering. For details on the entirety of thirdweb's offerings, be sure to visit the [thirdweb documentation site](https://portal.thirdweb.com/){target=\_blank}.

For a comprehensive, step-by-step guide to building a dApp with thirdweb be sure to check out Moonbeam's [thirdweb tutorial in the tutorials section](/tutorials/eth-api/thirdweb). The following sections will cover everything from connecting wallets, to preparing transactions, and more.
```

> ### Accounts and Wallets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Accounts and Wallets {: #accounts-and-wallets }
```

> thirdweb distinguishes between accounts and wallets in the sdk. In the eyes of the thirdweb SDK, an account always has a single blockchain address and can sign messages, transactions, and typed data, but it cannot be "connected" or "disconnected." In contrast, a wallet contains one or more accounts, can be connected or disconnected, and delegates the signing tasks to its accounts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
thirdweb distinguishes between accounts and wallets in the SDK. In the eyes of the thirdweb SDK, an account always has a single blockchain address and can sign messages, transactions, and typed data, but it cannot be "connected" or "disconnected." In contrast, a wallet contains one or more accounts, can be connected or disconnected, and delegates the signing tasks to its accounts. 
```

The below code snippet demonstrates how to initialize and connect a MetaMask wallet using the thirdweb SDK, then sign and send a transaction, retrieving the transaction hash. This process is applicable to any of the 300+ wallet connectors supported by the SDK.

> ```typescript title="Initialize and Connect a Metamask Wallet"

Reviewer: I think this should be extracted to a code snippet, so we can use it for the CN site

Reviewer: I think titles should strictly be for file names. We should be explicitly telling users what the snippet does before the snippet,  so we don't need to do it here too

import { sendTransaction } from 'thirdweb';
// MetaMask wallet used for example, the pattern is the same for all wallets
import { createWallet } from 'thirdweb/wallets';

> // initialize the wallet, Third web supports of the 300+ wallet connectors
> const wallet = createWallet('io.metamask');
> 
> // connect the wallet, this returns a promise that resolves to the connected account
> const account = await wallet.connect({
>   // pass the client you created with `createThirdwebClient()`
>   client,
> });
> 
> // sign & send a transaction with the account -> returns the transaction hash
> const { transactionHash } = await sendTransaction({
>   // assuming you have called `prepareTransaction()` or `prepareContractCall()` before which returns the prepared transaction to send
>   transaction,
>   // Pass the account to sign the transaction with
>   account,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Initialize the wallet. thirdweb supports 300+ wallet connectors
const wallet = createWallet('io.metamask');

// Connect the wallet. This returns a promise that resolves to the connected account
const account = await wallet.connect({
  // Pass the client you created with `createThirdwebClient()`
  client,
});

// Sign and send a transaction with the account. Returns the transaction hash
const { transactionHash } = await sendTransaction({
  // Assuming you have called `prepareTransaction()` or `prepareContractCall()` before, which returns the prepared transaction to send
  transaction,
  // Pass the account to sign the transaction with
  account,
```

});
```

### Get Contract {: #get-contract }

> To connect to your contract, use the SDK’s [`getContract`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/references/typescript/v5/getContract){target=\_blank} method.  As an example, you could fetch data from an [incrementer contract on Moonbase Alpha](https://moonbase.moonscan.io/address/0xa72f549a1a12b9b49f30a7f3aeb1f4e96389c5d8){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to your contract, use the SDK’s [`getContract`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/references/typescript/v5/getContract){target=\_blank} method. As an example, you could fetch data from an [incrementer contract on Moonbase Alpha](https://moonbase.moonscan.io/address/0xa72f549a1a12b9b49f30a7f3aeb1f4e96389c5d8){target=\_blank}.
```

> ```typescript title="Get Contract"

Reviewer: no need for this title

import { getContract } from 'thirdweb';
import { client } from './client';

const myContract = getContract({
  client,
  chain: moonbase,
  address: INSERT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS,

>   abi: INSERT_ABI,

Reviewer: If we're going to tell them they can fetch data from an incrementer contract, we should just put the contract address and ABI in the code snippet

});
```

### Calling Contract Functions {: #calling-contract-functions }

To call a contract in the latest version of the SDK, you can use [`prepareContractCall`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/transactions/prepare){target=\_blank}.

> ```typescript title="Calling Contract Functions"

Reviewer: same here with the title

import { prepareContractCall, toWei } from 'thirdweb';

const tx = prepareContractCall({
  contract,
  // Pass the method signature that you want to call
  method: 'function mintTo(address to, uint256 amount)',

>   // and the params for that method
>   // Their types are automatically inferred based on the method signature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Pass the params for that method.
  // Their types are automatically inferred based on the method signature
```

  params: ['0x123...', toWei('100')],
});
```

### Preparing Raw Transactions {: #preparing-raw-transactions }

You can also prepare a transaction directly with encoded data. To do so, you'll use thirdweb's [`prepareTransaction` method](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/transactions/prepare){target=\_blank} and specify the `to`, `value`, `chain`, and `client` values directly. 

> ```typescript title="Preparing Raw Transactions"

Reviewer: title

import { prepareTransaction, toWei } from 'thirdweb';

const transaction = prepareTransaction({
  // The account that will be the receiver
  to: '0x456...',
  // The value is the amount of ether you want to send with the transaction
  value: toWei('1'),
  // The chain to execute the transaction on. This assumes you already set up

>   // moonbase as a custom chain as shown in the configure chain section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // moonbase as a custom chain as shown in the configure chain section
```

  chain: moonbase,
  // Your thirdweb client
  client,
});
```

### Reading Contract State {: #read-contract-state }

Use the [`readContract` function](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/transactions/read){target=\_blank} to call any read functions on your contract by passing in the Solidity method signature and any parameters.

> ```typescript title="Reading Contract State"

Reviewer: title

import { readContract } from 'thirdweb';

const balance = await readContract({
  contract: contract,
  method: 'function balanceOf(address) view returns (uint256)',
  params: ['0x123...'],
});
```

> For a function that takes no parameters, such as the number function that returns the current number stored in the [incrementer contract](https://moonbase.moonscan.io/address/0xa72f549a1a12b9b49f30a7f3aeb1f4e96389c5d8){target=\_blank}, you simply need to provide the function name as follows: 

Reviewer: If we're back to the incrementer example here , I feel like we should just consistently use the incrementer as the example in the other sections

> ```typescript title="Reading Contract State"

Reviewer: title

import { readContract } from 'thirdweb';

const number = await readContract({
  contract: contract,
  method: 'number',
  params: [],
});
```

Did you know? With the [thirdweb CLI](https://portal.thirdweb.com/cli){target=\_blank}, you can easily and generate functions for all of the possible calls to a contract. To do so, run the following command in the command line: 

```bash

> npx thirdweb generate INSERT-CHAIN-ID/INSERT-CONTRACT-ADDRESS

Reviewer: INSERT_CHAIN_ID - use underscores

also not sure what this syntax is? is it one or the other? or is the format actually chain-id/contract?

Author: Both, added additional context

import { prepareTransaction, toWei } from 'thirdweb';

const transaction = prepareTransaction({
  to: '0x1234567890123456789012345678901234567890',
  chain: moonbase,
  client: thirdwebClient,
  value: toWei('1.0'),
  gasPrice: 150n,
});
```

After the transaction is prepared, you can send it as follows:

```typescript title="Send a transaction"
import { sendTransaction } from 'thirdweb';

const { transactionHash } = await sendTransaction({
  account,
  transaction,
});
```

You can optionally use `sendAndConfirmTransaction` to wait for the transaction to be mined. This is relevant if you want to block the user from continuing until the transaction is confirmed. 

```typescript title="Send and Confirm a Transaction"
import { sendAndConfirmTransaction } from 'thirdweb';
import { createWallet } from 'thirdweb/wallets';

const wallet = createWallet('io.metamask');
const account = await wallet.connect({ client });

const receipt = await sendAndConfirmTransaction({
  transaction,
  account,
});
```

### Transaction Utilities {: #transaction-utilites }

thirdweb provides a number of helpful utility methods surrounding preparing and sending transactions. 

> You can estimate the gas used by a txn as follows: 

Reviewer: transaction

```typescript title="Estimating Gas"
import { estimateGas } from 'thirdweb';

const gasEstimate = await estimateGas({ transaction });
console.log('estmated gas used', gasEstimate);
```

> You can estimate the gas cost in ether and wei as follows: 

Reviewer: Ether Wei

```typescript title="Estimating Gas Cost"
import { estimateGas } from 'thirdweb';

const gasCost = await estimateGasCost({ transaction });
console.log('cost in ether', gasCost.ether);
```

thirdweb also provides a handy way to simulate transactions and verify their integrity before actually submitting it to the blockchain. You can simulate a transaction as follows:

```typescript title="Simulate a transaction"
import { simulateTransaction } from 'thirdweb';

const result = await simulateTransaction({ transaction });
console.log('simulation result', result);
```

You can encode transaction data to act on later by taking the following steps: 

```typescript title="Encode transaction data"
import { encode } from 'thirdweb';

const data = await encode(transaction);
console.log('encoded data', data);
```

### Connect Wallet Button {: #connect-wallet-button }

> Perhaps the first and most important interaction users will have with your dApp is connecting their wallet. thirdweb provides an easy and highly customizable way for you to enable this. thirdweb provides a highly customizable [`Connect Button`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react/components/ConnectButton){target=\_blank} to tailor it to your desired wallets. The `Connect Button` accepts an optional  `wallets` parameter with an array of wallets. You can add or remove wallets from the `wallets` array to change the options available to users. thirdWeb also offers a [ConnectButton Playground](https://thirdweb.com/dashboard/connect/playground) to customize and view changes for the `ConnectButton` in real-time, given the button's high degree of flexibility.

Reviewer: `ConnectButton` per their docs site

> Perhaps the first and most important interaction users will have with your dApp is connecting their wallet. thirdweb provides an easy and highly customizable way for you to enable this. thirdweb provides a highly customizable [`Connect Button`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react/components/ConnectButton){target=\_blank} to tailor it to your desired wallets. The `Connect Button` accepts an optional  `wallets` parameter with an array of wallets. You can add or remove wallets from the `wallets` array to change the options available to users. thirdWeb also offers a [ConnectButton Playground](https://thirdweb.com/dashboard/connect/playground) to customize and view changes for the `ConnectButton` in real-time, given the button's high degree of flexibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Perhaps the first and most important interaction users will have with your dApp is connecting their wallet. thirdweb provides an easy and highly customizable way for you to enable this. thirdweb provides a highly customizable [`ConnectButton`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react/components/ConnectButton){target=\_blank} to tailor it to your desired wallets. The `ConnectButton` accepts an optional `wallets` parameter with an array of wallets. You can add or remove wallets from the `wallets` array to change the options available to users. thirdweb also offers a [`ConnectButton` Playground](https://thirdweb.com/dashboard/connect/playground){target=\_blank} to customize and view changes for the `ConnectButton` in real-time, given the button's high degree of flexibility.
```

2. Input your preferences for the command line prompts:

    1. Give your project a name
    2. Choose your preferred framework: **Next.js**, **Vite**, or **React Native**. For this example, select **Vite**

3. Use the React or TypeScript SDK to interact with your application’s functions. This will be covered in the following section on interacting with a contract

### Specify Client ID {: #specify-client-id }

> Before you launch your dApp (locally or publicly deployed), you must have a ThirdWeb Client ID associated with your project. A ThirdWeb Client ID is synonymous with an API key. You can create a free API key by [signing into your ThirdWeb Account and navigating to Settings -> API Keys](https://thirdweb.com/create-api-key){target=\_blank}.

Reviewer: settings and API keys are both UI elements, so those should be in bold and can you replace `->` with "then click on" or something similar

## Interact With a Contract {: #interact-with-a-contract }

thirdweb provides several SDKs to allow you to interact with your contract including: [React](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react){target=\_blank}, [React Native](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react-native){target=\_blank}, [TypeScript](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5){target=\_blank}, and [Unity](https://portal.thirdweb.com/unity){target=\_blank}.

This document will show you how to interact with your contract deployed to Moonbeam using React. You can view the [full React SDK reference](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react){target=\_blank} in thirdweb’s documentation.

### Run Locally {: #run-locally }

To run your dApp locally for testing and debugging purposes, use the command: 

```bash
yarn dev
```

The app will compile and specify the localhost and port number for you to visit in your browser.

![thirdweb run locally](/images/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/thirdweb-4.webp)

### Initialize SDK On Moonbeam {: #initialize-sdk-on-moonbeam }

Wrap your application in the `ThirdwebProvider` component and change the `activeChain` to Moonbeam.

> ```javascript title="Initialize SDK"

Reviewer: Sorry, I probably wasn't clear. I meant to add the file name to each snippet of the file that is being changed. So like this one should be `src/main.tsx`

Reviewer: We have them create the application, but then we just kinda start saying change this and change that without telling them where to go to change it

> import { ThirdwebProvider } from '@thirdweb-dev/react';

Reviewer: According to the migration guide to v5, we shouldn't be using @thirdweb-dev instead we should use the SDK https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/migrate - did you look into this?

Reviewer: They have an example in the migration guide that would essentially replace the below snippet, but that is like a progressive way to migrate. I think we should just start fresh with v5 https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/react/ThirdwebProvider. It seems that we wouldn't really need to do anything with the app to create the ThirdwebProvider but we would have to look into how to use Moonbeam https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v5/chain

npx thirdweb install
```

> ### Specify Client ID {: #specify-client-id }

Reviewer: I think this section should go under the ## Create Application section

Before you launch your dApp (locally or publicly deployed), you must have a ThirdWeb Client ID associated with your project. A ThirdWeb Client ID is synonymous with an API key. You can create a free API key by [signing into your ThirdWeb Account and navigating to Settings -> API Keys](https://thirdweb.com/create-api-key){target=\_blank}.

Press **Create API Key** then take the following steps:

1. Give your API key a name

> 2. Enter the allowed domains that the API key should accept requests from. It's recommended that you allow only necessary domains, but for development purposes, you can select **Allow all domains**.
> 3. Press **Next** and Confirm the prompt on the next page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter the allowed domains that the API key should accept requests from. It's recommended that you allow only necessary domains, but for development purposes, you can select **Allow all domains**
3. Press **Next** and confirm the prompt on the next page
```

> Finally, specify your Client ID (API Key) in your `client.ts` file. ThirdWeb by default assumes it will be in your .env file named `NEXT_PUBLIC_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, specify your Client ID (API Key) in your `client.ts` file. ThirdWeb by default assumes it will be in your `.env` file named `NEXT_PUBLIC_TEMPLATE_CLIENT_ID`.
```

![thirdweb create API key](/images/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/thirdweb-3.webp)

### Run Locally {: #run-locally }

To run your dApp locally for testing and debugging purposes, use the command: 

```bash
yarn dev
```

The app will compile and specify the localhost and port number for you to visit in your browser.

![thirdweb run locally](/images/builders/ethereum/dev-env/thirdweb/thirdweb-4.webp)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Get Contract {: #get-contract }

> To connect to your contract, use the SDK’s [`getContract`](https://portal.thirdweb.com/typescript/v4/extensions){target=\_blank} method.

Reviewer: v5?

For extension based functions, use the built-in supported hooks. There are several hooks available for you to use, the following are a few examples:

- Use the NFTs extension to access a list of NFTs owned by an address via the [`useOwnedNFTs` hook](https://portal.thirdweb.com/references/react/v4/useOwnedNFTs){target=\_blank}:

```javascript title="Call Contract Functions"
import { useOwnedNFTs, useContract, useAddress } from '@thirdweb-dev/react';

// Your smart contract address
const contractAddress = 'INSERT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS';

function App() {
  const address = useAddress();
  const { contract } = useContract(contractAddress);
  const { data, isLoading, error } = useOwnedNFTs(contract, address);
}
```

- Use the [`useContractRead` hook](https://portal.thirdweb.com/references/react/v4/useContractRead){target=\_blank} to call any read functions on your contract by passing in the name of the function you want to use:

```javascript title="Read Contract Data"

> import { useContractRead, useContract } from '@thirdweb-dev/react';

Reviewer: have these changed with v5? and how are we supposed to access these now from @thirdweb/react instead of @thirdweb-dev/react?
